---
cssclass: dailynote
---
# 2021-02-01

## Reflections

* I found [this article](https://www.sciencenews.org/article/oldest-grass-beds-insect-repellent) on [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskAnthropology/comments/labcys/how_did_ancient_humanshunter_gatherers_stop_bugs/). It's about how ancient humans in southern Africa (Border Cave, 200,000 years ago) kept away bugs at night: 

> Ash spread beneath bound bunches of grass may have been used to repel crawling, biting insects, which cannot easily move through fine powder.
> <div></div>
> 
> <cite>by [Wadley et al](doi:10.1126/science.abc7239)</cite>

* Found [this thread](https://forum.obsidian.md/t/annotation-symols/12273/6) on the obsidian forums about a (frustratingly unnamed) Russian guy who advocates identifying different types of information (which might have implications for ways to annotate). I like the idea of adapting this into a color code with sticky notes for annotating long texts. 

	-   “proteins”, a.k.a. **directly actionable info**. This is something you can start using immediately: a new lifehack or trick, a principle that you can include into your daily life, stuff like this.
	-   “carbs”, a.k.a. the ideas and concepts that you have to think about for a while (“to break down a bit”), and which motivate you and/or **make you wonder.** These could potentially deliver way more “energy” than a “protein” would: a piece of ancient stoic wisdom that you have “to chew on”, or a curious insight into human behavior, or a new concept that explains some things that didn’t quite make sense before.
	-   “fats”, a.k.a. the **flavor** bits that make a book “tastier”: stories, metaphors etc.
	-   “vitamins”, a.k.a the stuff that makes you **erudite**: curious cases, anecdotes, pithy quotes.
	-   “fiber”, a.k.a. **hard data**: numbers, figures, tables, facts, references to other books or people, statistics and so on. Books without fiber usually fall into “philosophical musings” category (or are fiction).
	-   the rest is “water”. Necessary, but not worth writing home about (or taking notes on). 


## Accomplishments

* Finished annotating Chapter 2 of [[The Civilizations of Africa by Christopher Ehret]]. 
* Finished editing [[01 Sewers]] for the [[00 Civil Mage|Civil Mage]] Act 1 that's due by 8pm on Monday. 

%% #dailynote %%