---
cssclass: dailynote
---
# 2021-02-03

## Reflections
* Read this [neat article](https://web.nmsu.edu/~pscott/isgem71.htm) about how women were probably the first mathematicians. 

## Accomplishments
* Answered a popular [[rAskHistorians]] question about [[Calendars and Rites of Passage]]. Incidentally, another answer (mostly about [[Mesopotamia]]) had some really great fodder for how the [[Nahrian People]] would handle [[2020.12.14 Navigation|star charts]] and astrology for calculating birthdays:

>  During the Achaemenid and Hellenistic period this picture seems to have changed drastically to the point where we have found cuneiform horoscopes written for individuals. The lack of a native Babylonian king likely made the cuneiform astrological omens less important. While certainly some [[Persian]] and [[Greek]] kings paid heed to the predictions of Babylonian astrologers or at least feigned interest in them, Babylonian astrology would have found significant competition from Persian and Greek traditions building off the Babylonians. I would expect that a combination of changes from interacting with other traditions and also the rapidly deteriorating power base (and subsequently income stream) for astrologers in the court pushed them to ply their trade to more common individuals.
>
> So to answer your question directly, this is the point where more and more people would have been interested in the exact day of their birth. Astrology uses the position of the planets in the zodiac on your day of birth most prominently, and so if you wanted to get a horoscope that was accurate you needed to know your exact birthday. I would imagine there were a lot of people who would make up a day and not be certain, but often the way you would even know your birthday was that your parents would have your horoscope cast shortly after you were born. Prior to the "democratization" in a way of astrology, I expect you are correct that very few if any individuals felt the need to keep track of their specific birthday, and would be content only to know the passage of months and years.

%% #dailynote %%