---
cssclass: dailynote
---
# 2021-02-26

## Reflections
* This [deep dive](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/lnbymk/do_historiansarcheologists_think_that_cyrus) into the relationships between Babylon and Assyria in [[Mesopotamia]] around the time of Cyrus and how conquering leaders paid lip service to the religious cultural preferences of the local people in the areas they conquered was a pretty interesting look at how conquerors need to conform to the local preferences in order to effectively rule. This was pretty common in a lot of ancient and even medieval conquests for example the assimilation of native gods into the Catholic Pantheon. This should probably become an atomic note for that concept. #Atomize
* I particularly enjoyed this deep dive into [historical laundry](https://kimrendfeld.wordpress.com/2012/09/26/laundry-in-the-18th-and-early-19th-centuries/), written by a historical fiction author — which just goes to show that I'm not the only one combing academic texts to find useful resources for writing fiction. 
This [roundup](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/lsrt2i/who_exactly_were_the_sea_people_and_how_did_they/) is a nice overview of why the whole "sea people are responsible for the Bronze Age Collapse" is basically bullshit. 

## Accomplishments
- [x] Completed [[2021-W08#The Laundress the Beanstalk]] & "shipped" it to Scribophile for edits. 
- [x] flesh out [[2021.03.08 Laundry]] into a newsletter. 
- [x] completed [[Review of the Traitor Son Cycle by Miles Cameron]]. 

## Gratitude

- Second alarm brewhouse is actually really amazing. Great decor, non-caffeinated offerings, good music, good safety protocols, right on the way home from the library. 
- yesterday, Alec got to have his first "moment" with Max, passing the hammer back and forth and then each banging on the posting toy in turn. Alec actually teared up a little talking about it. 
- Frances came over and watched Max and they had such a good time and I was so productive! 


%% #dailynote %%